README.md, before:

# Fin Indian Statments

This project is for handling and interpreting the mutual fund statments in Indian context to provide useful insights. the user provides pdf statments for CAS (Consolidated Account Statements) and gain statements from fund management services such as CAMS and Karvy.

## Features:

* Interpret pdf statments to provide transactions in csv format which can then be used for other purposes such as portfolio management or ITR inputs.
* Reconcile the CAS with gain statements to flag any missing transactions on "Sell" side.


> **Disclaimer:** Please consider this tool as **alpha** version as needs to be thoroughly tested on different inputs. You are responsible for usage of data, and are **strongly** advised to cross-check the outputs manually as well.


## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.x environment
- Java
  - Confirmed working with Java 7, 8

### Installing

From a command line (preferably, from a virtual environment), simply issue
the command:

    pip install -r requirements.txt


This will download [the latest released version][23] of the program dependencies from the
[Python Package Index (PyPI)][22] along with *all* the necessary
dependencies. At this point, you should be ready to start using it.

If this does not work, because you are on Python 2 versions (e.g. 2.7.5
on Ubuntu 14.4), try:

    apt-get install python3 python3-pip
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt

instead.

**Note 1:** We strongly recommend that you *don't* install the package
globally on your machine (i.e., with root/administrator privileges), as the
installed modules may conflict with other Python applications that you have
installed in your system (or they can interfere with this).  Prefer
to use the option `--user` to `pip install`, if you need can.


## Usage

Go into the `finindia_stmts` folder, containing the `finindia_stmts.py` file.

1. Create two folders - `input` and `output` in the working directory. 
2. Put the pdf files in the `input` folder.
3. Make the changes in `finindia_stmts.main()` function to the `processing_queue` list to include the files in the tuple, which contains following values for each file -
  a. filename
  b. Whether the given pdf is - `CAS` or `GAIN`
  c. password
  d. in case of pt.b being GAIN, whether it is from CAMS or KARVY operated funds.
4. Run the command -
   `python finindia_stmts.py`


The `output` folder will contain the generated CSV files for each input pdf. Also following reconciliation CSVs will be generated:
* reconciliation_summary.csv - Containing final mismatch 
* reconciliation_detailed.csv - includes even matched folios, to infer if there is anything amiss.

## TODOs

1. Handling statments from other than CAMS or Karvy. e.g. FTAMIL / SBFS

# Troubleshooting


# Reporting issues

Before reporting any issue please follow the steps below:

1. Verify that you are running the latest version of the script, and the
recommended versions of its dependencies, see them in the file
`requirements.txt`. 

2. If the problem persists, feel free to [open an issue][issue] in our
bugtracker, please fill the issue template with *as much information as
possible*.

[issue]: https://github.com/finindia_stmts/finindia_stmts/issues

# Filing an issue/Reporting a bug

When reporting bugs against `finindia_stmts`, please don't forget to include
enough information so that you can help us help you:

* Is the problem happening with the latest version of the script?
* What operating system are you using?
* Do you have all the recommended versions of the modules? See them in the
  file `requirements.txt`.
* What is the precise command line that you are using (feel free to hide
  your username and password with asterisks, but leave all other
  information untouched).
* What are the precise messages that you get? Please, use the `--debug`
  option before posting the messages as a bug report. Please, copy and paste
  them.  Don't reword/paraphrase the messages.


# Contact

Please, post bugs and issues on [github][1]. 

[1]: https://github.com/finindia_stmts/finindia_stmts/issues

Commit message:

added command line support for job-file input

README.md, after:

# Fin Indian Statments

This project is for handling and interpreting the mutual fund statments in Indian context to provide useful insights. the user provides pdf statments for CAS (Consolidated Account Statements) and gain statements from fund management services such as CAMS and Karvy.

## Features:

* Interpret pdf statments to provide transactions in csv format which can then be used for other purposes such as portfolio management or ITR inputs.
* Reconcile the CAS with gain statements to flag any missing transactions on "Sell" side.


> **Disclaimer:** Please consider this tool as **alpha** version as needs to be thoroughly tested on different inputs. You are responsible for usage of data, and are **strongly** advised to cross-check the outputs manually as well.


## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.x environment
- Java
  - Confirmed working with Java 7, 8

### Installing

From a command line (preferably, from a virtual environment), simply issue
the command:

    pip install -r requirements.txt


This will download [the latest released version][23] of the program dependencies from the
[Python Package Index (PyPI)][22] along with *all* the necessary
dependencies. At this point, you should be ready to start using it.

If this does not work, because you are on Python 2 versions (e.g. 2.7.5
on Ubuntu 14.4), try:

    apt-get install python3 python3-pip
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt

instead.

**Note 1:** We strongly recommend that you *don't* install the package
globally on your machine (i.e., with root/administrator privileges), as the
installed modules may conflict with other Python applications that you have
installed in your system (or they can interfere with this).  Prefer
to use the option `--user` to `pip install`, if you need can.


## Usage

Go into the `finindia_stmts` folder, containing the `finindia_stmts.py` file.

1. Create two folders - `input` and `output` in the working directory. 
2. Put the pdf files in the `input` folder.
3. Make a copy of the file - **input/job-desc-sample.csv**, and make changes in it appropriately.
    1. filename
    2. Whether the given pdf is - `CAS` or `GAIN`
    3. password
    4. in case of pt.b being GAIN, whether it is from CAMS or KARVY operated funds.
4. Run the command -
    ```
    extract.py -c input/job-description.csv
      # or
    python extract.py -c input/job-desc.csv
    ```


The `output` folder will contain the generated CSV files for each input pdf. Also following reconciliation CSVs will be generated:
* reconciliation_summary.csv - Containing final mismatch 
* reconciliation_detailed.csv - includes even matched folios, to infer if there is anything amiss.

## TODOs

1. Handling statments from other than CAMS or Karvy. e.g. FTAMIL / SBFS

# Troubleshooting


# Reporting issues

Before reporting any issue please follow the steps below:

1. Verify that you are running the latest version of the script, and the
recommended versions of its dependencies, see them in the file
`requirements.txt`. 

2. If the problem persists, feel free to [open an issue][issue] in our
bugtracker, please fill the issue template with *as much information as
possible*.

[issue]: https://github.com/finindia_stmts/finindia_stmts/issues

# Filing an issue/Reporting a bug

When reporting bugs against `finindia_stmts`, please don't forget to include
enough information so that you can help us help you:

* Is the problem happening with the latest version of the script?
* What operating system are you using?
* Do you have all the recommended versions of the modules? See them in the
  file `requirements.txt`.
* What is the precise command line that you are using (feel free to hide
  your username and password with asterisks, but leave all other
  information untouched).
* What are the precise messages that you get? Please, use the `--debug`
  option before posting the messages as a bug report. Please, copy and paste
  them.  Don't reword/paraphrase the messages.


# Contact

Please, post bugs and issues on [github][1]. 

[1]: https://github.com/finindia_stmts/finindia_stmts/issues
